# <span class="smallcaps">UNIVERSITÀ DELLA SVIZZERA ITALIANA</span>

# FACULTY OF COMPUTER SCIENCE

# Master in Artificial Intelligence

# Topic: Ubiquitous Computing \[2014\]

Speaker: Heider Jeffer and Prof. Marc Langheinrich

Instructor: Mehdi Jazayeri

Assistant: Sasa Nesic



# Summary

Ubiquitous computing (ubicomp) is a post-desktop model of human-computer
interaction in which information processing has been thoroughly
integrated into everyday objects and activities. In the course of
ordinary activities, someone ”using” ubiquitous computing engages many
computational devices and systems simultaneously, and may not
necessarily even be aware that they are doing so. This model is usually
considered an advancement from the desktop paradigm.

This paradigm is also described as pervasive computing, ambient
intelligence. When primarily concerning the objects involved, it is also
physical computing, the Internet of Things, haptic computing, and things
that think. Rather than propose a single definition for ubiquitous
computing and for these related terms, a taxonomy of properties for
ubiquitous computing has been proposed, from which different kinds or
flavors of ubiquitous systems and applications can be described.

At their core, all models of ubiquitous computing (also called pervasive
computing) share a vision of small, inexpensive, robust networked
processing de- vices, distributed at all scales throughout everyday life
and generally turned to distinctly common-place ends. For example, a
domestic ubiquitous computing environment might interconnect lighting
and environmental controls with personal biometric monitors woven into
clothing so that illumination and heating conditions in a room might be
modulated, continuously and imperceptibly. Another common scenario
posits refrigerators ”aware” of their suitably-tagged contents, able to
both plan a variety of menus from the food actually on hand and warn
users of stale or spoiled food.

Ubiquitous computing presents challenges across computer science: in
systems design and engineering, systems modeling, and user interface
design. Contemporary human-computer interaction models, whether command-

line, menu-driven, or GUI-based, are inappropriate and inadequate to the
ubiquitous case. This suggests that the ”natural” interaction paradigm
appropriate to fully robust ubiquitous computing has yet to emerge -
although there is also recognition in the field that in many ways we are
already living in a ubicomp world. Contemporary devices that lend some
support to this latter idea include mobile phones, digital audio
players, radio-frequency identification tags, GPS, and interactive
whiteboards.

# Ubiquitous learning

For some, ubiquitous learning (or u-learning) is equivalent to some form
of simple mobile learning, e.g. that learning environments can be
accessed in various contexts and situations. A ubiquitous learning
environment is any setting in which students can become immersed in the
learning process. So, a ubiquitous learning environment /ULE/ is a
situation or set of pervasive /or omnipresent/ education /or learning/.
Education is happening all around the student but the student may not
even be conscious of the learning process. Source data is present in the
embedded objects and students do not have to DO anything to learn. They
just have to be there.
